Guideline to size TiFlash (#40)
tidbcloud/dbaas-docs: size-your-cluster.md

This document describes how to select the number of nodes for your TiDB cluster.

## Size TiDB

> TiDB is for computing only and does not store data. It is horizontally scalable. Each TiDB Cloud cluster requires at least two TiDB nodes.

Reviewer: - To avoid confusion between the TiDB server and the TiDB database
- To keep wording of this section with the following TiKV section consistent
```suggestion
The TiDB server is responsible for computing only and does not store data. It is horizontally scalable. Each TiDB Cloud cluster requires at least two TiDB nodes.
```

Author: The TiDB, TiKV, and TiFlash descriptions are copied from DBaaS UI. Maybe we should keep them uniform?
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/867381/111280423-c6880d00-8676-11eb-8c7f-2e02419e3d18.png)

Reviewer: @SunRunAway Got it. Then we may need to update the descriptions in UI if they're not appropriate. @h293wang-new What do you think?

Author: We can divide it into another task, right?

Reviewer 2: Tina has come up with an updated version of the UI description, which is pending review. Please leave your comment if you have any suggestions on the node description. https://docs.google.com/document/d/1JA7yGMZooUmO1xzw_i74jCQ9HE4Sii6LxIXu2TJCtbs/edit

Reviewer: @h293wang-new Got it.

## Size TiKV

> TiKV is responsible for storing data. It is horizontally scalable and the number of nodes should be **at least 1 set (3 nodes in 3 different Available Zones)**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TiKV is responsible for storing data. It is horizontally scalable. Each TiDB Cloud cluster requires **at least 1 set (3 nodes in 3 different Available Zones)** of TiKV nodes.
```

Data in each TiDB Cloud cluster has 3 replicas, and each replica is distributed in a different availability zone.

> **Note:**
>
> When you scale your TiDB cluster, nodes in the 3 availability zones are increased or decreased at the same time. For how to scale in or scale out a TiDB cluster based on your needs, see [Scale Your TiDB Cluster](scale-tidb-cluter.md).

For example:

Supposing the size of your MySQL dump files is 5 TB and the TiDB compression ratio is 70%, the storage needed is 3584 GB.

> If you choose the **t1.standard** tier on AWS and each TiKV node has 1900 GB storage, then the required number of TiKV nodes are as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you choose the **t1.standard** tier on AWS and each TiKV node has 1900 GB storage, then the required number of TiKV nodes is as follows:
```

> - Minimum number of TiKV nodes:  `3584 ÷ 1900 × 3 (replica) ≈ 6`

Reviewer: Since there's only one item, we don't need to use a list for it.
```suggestion
Minimum number of TiKV nodes: `3584 ÷ 1900 × 3 (replica) ≈ 6`
```

## Size TiFlash

> TiFlash synchronizes data from TiKV in real time and supports real-time analytics workloads right out of the box, It is horizontally scalable. You can specify TiFlash nodes if you choose **H1.standard** tier.

Reviewer: - I think the data replication is not bidirectional here?
- Perhaps "real-time" and "right out of the box" convey the same meaning?
```suggestion
TiFlash replicates data from TiKV in real time and supports real-time analytics workloads. It is horizontally scalable. You can specify the number of TiFlash nodes if you select the **H1.standard** tier.
```

> The minimun number of TiFlash depends on the TiFlash replica counts for specific tables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The minimum number of TiFlash nodes depends on the TiFlash replica counts for specific tables:
```

> - Minimun number of TiFlash nodes: `min((compressed size of table A * replicas for table A + compressed size of table B * replicas for table B) / size of each TiFlash capacity, max(replicsa for table A, replicas for table B))`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Minimum number of TiFlash nodes: `min((compressed size of table A * replicas for table A + compressed size of table B * replicas for table B) / size of each TiFlash capacity, max(replicas for table A, replicas for table B))`
```

> For example, if you choose the **H1.standard** tier on AWS whose TiFlash node has 1900 GB storage, you set 2 replicas for table A (compressed size is 800GB) and 1 replica for table B (compressed size is 100GB). Then the TiFlash nodes are as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if you select the **H1.standard** tier on AWS whose TiFlash node has 1900 GB storage, and set 2 replicas for table A (the compressed size is 800 GB) and 1 replica for table B (the compressed size is 100 GB), then the required number of TiFlash nodes is as follows:
```

> - Minimun number of TiFlash nodes: `min((800GB * 2 + 100GB * 1) / 1900GB, max(2, 1)) ≈ 2`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Minimum number of TiFlash nodes: `min((800 GB * 2 + 100 GB * 1) / 1900 GB, max(2, 1)) ≈ 2`
```

For example:

Supposing the size of your MySQL dump files is 5 TB and the TiDB compression ratio is 70%, the storage needed is 3584 GB.

If you choose the **t1.standard** tier on AWS and each TiKV node has 1900 GB storage, then the required number of TiKV nodes are as follows:

- Minimum number of TiKV nodes:  3584 ÷ 1900 × 3 (replica) ≈ 6

## Size TiFlash

TiFlash synchronizes data from TiKV in real time and supports real-time analytics workloads right out of the box, It is horizontally scalable. You can specify TiFlash nodes if you choose **H1.standard** tier.

The number of TiFlash depends on the TiFlash replica counts for specific tables.

- Minimun number of TiFlash nodes: min((compressed size of table A * replica for table A + compressed size of table B * replica for table B) / size of each TiFlash capacity, max(replica for table A, replica for table B))

For example, if you choose the **H1.standard** tier on AWS whose TiFlash node has 1900 GB storage, you set 2 replicas for table A (compressed size is 800GB) and 1 replica for table B (compressed size is 100GB). Then the TiFlash nodes are as follows:

> - Minimun number of TiFlash nodes: min((800GB * 2 + 100GB * 1) / 1900GB, max(2, 1)) ≈ 2

Author: This calculation is hard, 
- customers are hard to get to know the compressed size of each table
- The formula is complex

we should provide a tool on DBaaS UI to help our customers calculate this number.

cc @h293wang-new

Reviewer 2: Yes, it's better to have a calculator like what AWS is doing. For now, let's just have some general guideline like CRDB's example: https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/cockroachcloud/create-your-cluster.html#example

Your function is too complicated. It should be as simple as primary school math.
